README.md, before:

# awesome links

Hi there 🖐🏼

This repo is an attempt to list what I think as high-quality educational materials about web development.

I really admire their way of teaching, expertise and willingness to improve community. These links really helped me learn a lot and I hope they do the same for you.

## Table of Contents

- [The Web](#the-web)
- [JavaScript](#javascript)
  - [Articles](#js-articles)
    - [Modules](#js-modules)
  - [Books](#js-books)
  - [Blogs](#js-blogs)
- [CSS](#css)
  - [Articles](#css-articles)
    - [Flexbox](#css-flexbox)
  - [Books](#css-books)
  - [Blogs](#css-blogs)
- [TypeScript](#typescript)
  - [Articles](#ts-articles)
    - [Fundamentals](#ts-fundamentals)
    - [Unions](#ts-unions)
    - [Never](#ts-never)
    - [Generics](#ts-generics)
  - [Books](#ts-books)
  - [Blogs](#ts-blogs)
- [React](#react)
  - [Articles](#react-articles)
    - [Fundamentals](#react-fundamentals)
    - [Hooks](#react-hooks)
    - [Patterns](#react-patterns)
    - [Rendering Behavior](#react-rendering-behavior)
    - [Performance](#react-performance)
    - [Server Components](#react-server-components)
    - [Suspense](#react-suspense)

## The Web

| Article                                                               | By                                            |
| --------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------- |
| [Web Applications 101](https://www.robinwieruch.de/web-applications/) | [Robin Wieruch](https://twitter.com/rwieruch) |

## JavaScript

### JS Articles

- #### JS Modules

  | Article                                                                                                                 | By                                                  |
  | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------- |
  | [JavaScript Modules: From IIFEs to CommonJS to ES6 Modules](https://ui.dev/javascript-modules-iifes-commonjs-esmodules) | [Tyler McGinnis](https://twitter.com/tylermcginnis) |

### JS Books

| Book                                                | By                                                                                                 |
| --------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [YDKJS](https://github.com/getify/You-Dont-Know-JS) | [Kyle Simpson](https://twitter.com/getifyAtSocket)                                                 |
| [Just Javascript](https://justjavascript.com/)      | [Dan Abramov](https://twitter.com/dan_abramov) & [Maggie Appleton](https://twitter.com/Mappletons) |

### JS Blogs

| Blog | By  |
| ---- | --- |
|      |     |

## CSS

### CSS Articles

- #### CSS Flexbox

  | Article                                                                                          | By                                                |
  | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------- |
  | [An Interactive Guide to Flexbox](https://www.joshwcomeau.com/css/interactive-guide-to-flexbox/) | [Josh W. Comeau](https://twitter.com/JoshWComeau) |

### CSS Books

| Book | By  |
| ---- | --- |
|      |     |

### CSS Blogs

| Blog |
| ---- |
|      |

## TypeScript

### TS Articles

- #### TS Fundamentals

  | Article                                                                                                               | By                                              |
  | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------- |
  | [No, TypeScript Types Don't Exist At Runtime](https://www.totaltypescript.com/typescript-types-dont-exist-at-runtime) | [Matt Pocock](https://twitter.com/mattpocockuk) |
  | [An Introduction To Type Programming In TypeScript](https://www.zhenghao.io/posts/type-programming)                   | [Zhenghao He](https://twitter.com/he_zhenghao)  |
  | [The Type Hierarchy Tree](https://www.zhenghao.io/posts/type-hierarchy-tree)                                          | [Zhenghao He](https://twitter.com/he_zhenghao)  |

- #### TS Unions

  | Article                                                                                                                                  | By                                              |
  | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------- |
  | [NoTypeScript Discriminated Unions for Frontend Developers](https://www.totaltypescript.com/discriminated-unions-are-a-devs-best-friend) | [Matt Pocock](https://twitter.com/mattpocockuk) |

- #### TS Unknown

  | Article                                                                                        | By                                                      |
  | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------- |
  | [The unknown Type in TypeScript](https://mariusschulz.com/blog/the-unknown-type-in-typescript) | [Marius Schulz](https://www.threads.net/@marius.schulz) |

- #### TS Never

  | Article                                                                                    | By                                                      |
  | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------- |
  | [A Complete Guide To TypeScript's Never Type](https://www.zhenghao.io/posts/ts-never)      | [Zhenghao He](https://twitter.com/he_zhenghao)          |
  | [The never Type in TypeScript](https://mariusschulz.com/blog/the-never-type-in-typescript) | [Marius Schulz](https://www.threads.net/@marius.schulz) |

- #### TS Generics

  | Article                                                                                                        | By                                              |
  | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------- |
  | [Building the Mental Model for Generics](https://www.totaltypescript.com/mental-model-for-typescript-generics) | [Matt Pocock](https://twitter.com/mattpocockuk) |
  | [There Is No Such Thing As A Generic](https://www.totaltypescript.com/no-such-thing-as-a-generic)              | [Matt Pocock](https://twitter.com/mattpocockuk) |

### TS Books

| Book | By  |
| ---- | --- |
|      |     |

### TS Blogs

| Blog                                            |
| ----------------------------------------------- |
| [Matt Pocock](https://www.totaltypescript.com/) |

## React

> [!NOTE]
>
> - Article column in tables can refer to RFCs, discussions and articles.

### React Articles

- #### React Fundamentals

  | Article                                                                                    | By                                                    |
  | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ----------------------------------------------------- |
  | [What is JSX?](https://kentcdodds.com/blog/what-is-jsx)                                    | [Kent C. Dodds](https://twitter.com/kentcdodds)       |
  | [React Element vs Component](https://www.robinwieruch.de/react-element-component/)         | [Robin Wieruch](https://twitter.com/rwieruch)         |
  | [The Rules of React](https://gist.github.com/sebmarkbage/75f0838967cd003cd7f9ab938eb1958f) | [Sebastian Markbåge](https://twitter.com/sebmarkbage) |

  ***

- #### React Hooks

  | Article                                                                                                 | By                                                      |
  | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------- |
  | [Thinking in React Hooks](https://2019.wattenberger.com/blog/react-hooks)                               | [Amelia Wattenberger](https://twitter.com/Wattenberger) |
  | [A Complete Guide to useEffect](https://overreacted.io/a-complete-guide-to-useeffect/)                  | [Dan Abramov](https://twitter.com/dan_abramov)          |
  | [Timeline of a React Component With Hooks](https://julesblom.com/writing/react-hook-component-timeline) | [Jules Blom](https://twitter.com/Mega_Jules)            |
  | [Making setInterval Declarative with React Hooks](https://shorturl.at/motM1)                            | [Dan Abramov](https://twitter.com/dan_abramov)          |

  ***

- #### React Patterns

  | Article                                                                              | By                                             |
  | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ---------------------------------------------- |
  | [Writing Resilient Components](https://overreacted.io/writing-resilient-components/) | [Dan Abramov](https://twitter.com/dan_abramov) |
  | [Code-Splitting](https://legacy.reactjs.org/docs/code-splitting.html)                | React Team                                     |

  ***

- #### React Rendering Behavior

  | Article                                                                                                | By                                             |
  | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ---------------------------------------------- |
  | [A (Mostly) Complete Guide to React Rendering Behavior](https://shorturl.at/bdfN8)                     | [Mark Erikson](https://twitter.com/acemarke)   |
  | [Automatic batching for fewer renders in React 18](https://github.com/reactwg/react-18/discussions/21) | [Dan Abramov](https://twitter.com/dan_abramov) |

  ***

- #### React Performance

  | Article                                                                                                | By                                              |
  | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ----------------------------------------------- |
  | [Before You memo()](https://overreacted.io/before-you-memo/)                                           | [Dan Abramov](https://twitter.com/dan_abramov)  |
  | [One simple trick to optimize React re-renders](https://kentcdodds.com/blog/optimize-react-re-renders) | [Kent C. Dodds](https://twitter.com/kentcdodds) |
  | [The Uphill Battle of Memoization](https://tkdodo.eu/blog/the-uphill-battle-of-memoization)            | [Dominik](https://twitter.com/tkdodo)           |

  ***

- #### React Server Components

  | Article                                                                                                  | By                                                |
  | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------- |
  | [Making Sense of React Server Components](https://www.joshwcomeau.com/react/server-components/)          | [Josh W. Comeau](https://twitter.com/joshwcomeau) |
  | [RFC: React Server Components](https://github.com/reactjs/rfcs/blob/main/text/0188-server-components.md) | React Team                                        |
  | [The Two Reacts](https://overreacted.io/the-two-reacts/)                                                 | [Dan Abramov](https://twitter.com/dan_abramov)    |

  | Video                                                                                           | By                                                                                           |
  | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
  | [Data Fetching with React Server Components](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TQQPAU21ZUw&t=11s) | [Dan Abramov](https://twitter.com/dan_abramov) & [Lauren Tan](https://twitter.com/potetotes) |

  ***

- #### React Suspense

  | Article                                                                                           | By                                             |
  | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------- |
  | [New Suspense SSR Architecture in React 18](https://github.com/reactwg/react-18/discussions/37)   | [Dan Abramov](https://twitter.com/dan_abramov) |
  | [Analogies for thinking & teaching Suspense?](https://github.com/reactwg/react-18/discussions/28) | [Simon Knott](https://twitter.com/skn0tt)      |

  | Video                                                                                   | By                                              |
  | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------- |
  | [Streaming Server Rendering with Suspense](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pj5N-Khihgc) | [Shaundai Person](https://twitter.com/shaundai) |

Commit message:

feat: add react-fundamentals video

README.md, after:

# awesome links

Hi there 🖐🏼

This repo is an attempt to list what I think as high-quality educational materials about web development.

I really admire their way of teaching, expertise and willingness to improve community. These links really helped me learn a lot and I hope they do the same for you.

## Table of Contents

- [The Web](#the-web)
- [JavaScript](#javascript)
  - [Articles](#js-articles)
    - [Modules](#js-modules)
  - [Books](#js-books)
  - [Blogs](#js-blogs)
- [CSS](#css)
  - [Articles](#css-articles)
    - [Flexbox](#css-flexbox)
  - [Books](#css-books)
  - [Blogs](#css-blogs)
- [TypeScript](#typescript)
  - [Articles](#ts-articles)
    - [Fundamentals](#ts-fundamentals)
    - [Unions](#ts-unions)
    - [Never](#ts-never)
    - [Generics](#ts-generics)
  - [Books](#ts-books)
  - [Blogs](#ts-blogs)
- [React](#react)
  - [Articles](#react-articles)
    - [Fundamentals](#react-fundamentals)
    - [Hooks](#react-hooks)
    - [Patterns](#react-patterns)
    - [Rendering Behavior](#react-rendering-behavior)
    - [Performance](#react-performance)
    - [Server Components](#react-server-components)
    - [Suspense](#react-suspense)

## The Web

| Article                                                               | By                                            |
| --------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------- |
| [Web Applications 101](https://www.robinwieruch.de/web-applications/) | [Robin Wieruch](https://twitter.com/rwieruch) |

## JavaScript

### JS Articles

- #### JS Modules

  | Article                                                                                                                 | By                                                  |
  | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------- |
  | [JavaScript Modules: From IIFEs to CommonJS to ES6 Modules](https://ui.dev/javascript-modules-iifes-commonjs-esmodules) | [Tyler McGinnis](https://twitter.com/tylermcginnis) |

### JS Books

| Book                                                | By                                                                                                 |
| --------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [YDKJS](https://github.com/getify/You-Dont-Know-JS) | [Kyle Simpson](https://twitter.com/getifyAtSocket)                                                 |
| [Just Javascript](https://justjavascript.com/)      | [Dan Abramov](https://twitter.com/dan_abramov) & [Maggie Appleton](https://twitter.com/Mappletons) |

### JS Blogs

| Blog | By  |
| ---- | --- |
|      |     |

## CSS

### CSS Articles

- #### CSS Flexbox

  | Article                                                                                          | By                                                |
  | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------- |
  | [An Interactive Guide to Flexbox](https://www.joshwcomeau.com/css/interactive-guide-to-flexbox/) | [Josh W. Comeau](https://twitter.com/JoshWComeau) |

### CSS Books

| Book | By  |
| ---- | --- |
|      |     |

### CSS Blogs

| Blog |
| ---- |
|      |

## TypeScript

### TS Articles

- #### TS Fundamentals

  | Article                                                                                                               | By                                              |
  | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------- |
  | [No, TypeScript Types Don't Exist At Runtime](https://www.totaltypescript.com/typescript-types-dont-exist-at-runtime) | [Matt Pocock](https://twitter.com/mattpocockuk) |
  | [An Introduction To Type Programming In TypeScript](https://www.zhenghao.io/posts/type-programming)                   | [Zhenghao He](https://twitter.com/he_zhenghao)  |
  | [The Type Hierarchy Tree](https://www.zhenghao.io/posts/type-hierarchy-tree)                                          | [Zhenghao He](https://twitter.com/he_zhenghao)  |

- #### TS Unions

  | Article | By  |
  | ------- | --- |
  |         |     |

- #### TS Unknown

  | Article                                                                                        | By                                                      |
  | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------- |
  | [The unknown Type in TypeScript](https://mariusschulz.com/blog/the-unknown-type-in-typescript) | [Marius Schulz](https://www.threads.net/@marius.schulz) |

- #### TS Never

  | Article                                                                                    | By                                                      |
  | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------- |
  | [A Complete Guide To TypeScript's Never Type](https://www.zhenghao.io/posts/ts-never)      | [Zhenghao He](https://twitter.com/he_zhenghao)          |
  | [The never Type in TypeScript](https://mariusschulz.com/blog/the-never-type-in-typescript) | [Marius Schulz](https://www.threads.net/@marius.schulz) |

- #### TS Generics

  | Article                                                                                                        | By                                              |
  | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------- |
  | [Building the Mental Model for Generics](https://www.totaltypescript.com/mental-model-for-typescript-generics) | [Matt Pocock](https://twitter.com/mattpocockuk) |
  | [There Is No Such Thing As A Generic](https://www.totaltypescript.com/no-such-thing-as-a-generic)              | [Matt Pocock](https://twitter.com/mattpocockuk) |

### TS Books

| Book | By  |
| ---- | --- |
|      |     |

### TS Blogs

| Blog                                            |
| ----------------------------------------------- |
| [Matt Pocock](https://www.totaltypescript.com/) |

## React

> [!NOTE]
>
> - Article column in tables can refer to RFCs, discussions and articles.

### React Articles

- #### React Fundamentals

  | Article                                                                                    | By                                                    |
  | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ----------------------------------------------------- |
  | [What is JSX?](https://kentcdodds.com/blog/what-is-jsx)                                    | [Kent C. Dodds](https://twitter.com/kentcdodds)       |
  | [React Element vs Component](https://www.robinwieruch.de/react-element-component/)         | [Robin Wieruch](https://twitter.com/rwieruch)         |
  | [The Rules of React](https://gist.github.com/sebmarkbage/75f0838967cd003cd7f9ab938eb1958f) | [Sebastian Markbåge](https://twitter.com/sebmarkbage) |

  | Video                                                               | By                                       |
  | ------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------- |
  | [Deconstructing React](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eTcyOCd6v1c) | [Tejas Kumar](https://x.com/TejasKumar_) |

  ***

- #### React Hooks

  | Article                                                                                                 | By                                                      |
  | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------- |
  | [Thinking in React Hooks](https://2019.wattenberger.com/blog/react-hooks)                               | [Amelia Wattenberger](https://twitter.com/Wattenberger) |
  | [A Complete Guide to useEffect](https://overreacted.io/a-complete-guide-to-useeffect/)                  | [Dan Abramov](https://twitter.com/dan_abramov)          |
  | [Timeline of a React Component With Hooks](https://julesblom.com/writing/react-hook-component-timeline) | [Jules Blom](https://twitter.com/Mega_Jules)            |
  | [Making setInterval Declarative with React Hooks](https://shorturl.at/motM1)                            | [Dan Abramov](https://twitter.com/dan_abramov)          |

  ***

- #### React Patterns

  | Article                                                                              | By                                             |
  | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ---------------------------------------------- |
  | [Writing Resilient Components](https://overreacted.io/writing-resilient-components/) | [Dan Abramov](https://twitter.com/dan_abramov) |
  | [Code-Splitting](https://legacy.reactjs.org/docs/code-splitting.html)                | React Team                                     |

  ***

- #### React Rendering Behavior

  | Article                                                                                                | By                                             |
  | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ---------------------------------------------- |
  | [A (Mostly) Complete Guide to React Rendering Behavior](https://shorturl.at/bdfN8)                     | [Mark Erikson](https://twitter.com/acemarke)   |
  | [Automatic batching for fewer renders in React 18](https://github.com/reactwg/react-18/discussions/21) | [Dan Abramov](https://twitter.com/dan_abramov) |

  ***

- #### React Performance

  | Article                                                                                                | By                                              |
  | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ----------------------------------------------- |
  | [Before You memo()](https://overreacted.io/before-you-memo/)                                           | [Dan Abramov](https://twitter.com/dan_abramov)  |
  | [One simple trick to optimize React re-renders](https://kentcdodds.com/blog/optimize-react-re-renders) | [Kent C. Dodds](https://twitter.com/kentcdodds) |
  | [The Uphill Battle of Memoization](https://tkdodo.eu/blog/the-uphill-battle-of-memoization)            | [Dominik](https://twitter.com/tkdodo)           |

  ***

- #### React Server Components

  | Article                                                                                                  | By                                                |
  | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------- |
  | [Making Sense of React Server Components](https://www.joshwcomeau.com/react/server-components/)          | [Josh W. Comeau](https://twitter.com/joshwcomeau) |
  | [RFC: React Server Components](https://github.com/reactjs/rfcs/blob/main/text/0188-server-components.md) | React Team                                        |
  | [A Chain Reaction](https://overreacted.io/a-chain-reaction/)                                             | [Dan Abramov](https://twitter.com/dan_abramov)    |
  | [The Two Reacts](https://overreacted.io/the-two-reacts/)                                                 | [Dan Abramov](https://twitter.com/dan_abramov)    |

  | Video                                                                                           | By                                                                                           |
  | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
  | [Data Fetching with React Server Components](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TQQPAU21ZUw&t=11s) | [Dan Abramov](https://twitter.com/dan_abramov) & [Lauren Tan](https://twitter.com/potetotes) |

  ***

- #### React Suspense

  | Article                                                                                           | By                                             |
  | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------- |
  | [New Suspense SSR Architecture in React 18](https://github.com/reactwg/react-18/discussions/37)   | [Dan Abramov](https://twitter.com/dan_abramov) |
  | [Analogies for thinking & teaching Suspense?](https://github.com/reactwg/react-18/discussions/28) | [Simon Knott](https://twitter.com/skn0tt)      |

  | Video                                                                                   | By                                              |
  | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------- |
  | [Streaming Server Rendering with Suspense](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pj5N-Khihgc) | [Shaundai Person](https://twitter.com/shaundai) |
